_pages/misc.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /miscellaneous/
title: miscellaneous
header: the stuff i've been up to @ uw
nav: true
nav_order: 5
---

## classes i've taken

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>sp 24</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 563</font></td>
    <td>Graduate Graph Theory</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 404</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Modern Algebra III (Galois Theory)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">ENGL 182</font></td>
    <td>Composition: Multimodal</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">RELIG 120</font></td>
    <td>Yoga: Past and Present</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>wi 24</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">EE 539</font></td>
    <td>Quantum Probability Theory and Stochastic Calculus</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 403</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Modern Algebra II (Groups)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">LING 269</font></td>
    <td>Swearing and Taboo Language</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>fall 23</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 521</font></td>
    <td>Advanced Algorithms</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 514</font></td>
    <td>Networks and Combinatorial Optimization</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 402</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Modern Algebra I (Rings)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MUSIC 162</font></td>
    <td>American Popular Song</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>sp 23</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 493</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Quantum Computing</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 422</font></td>
    <td>Advanced Toolkit for Modern Algorithms</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 336</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Advanced Honors Calculus III</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">PSYCH 210</font></td>
    <td>The Diversity of Human Sexuality</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>wi 23</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 421</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Algorithms</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 431</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to the Theory of Computation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 335</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Advanced Honors Calculus II</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>fall 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 446</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Machine Learning</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 351</font></td>
    <td>The Hardware/Software Interface</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 334</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Advanced Honors Calculus I</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>su 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 331</font></td>
    <td>Software Design and Implementation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 207</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Differential Equations</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CHEM 142</font></td>
    <td>General Chemistry I</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>sp 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 332</font></td>
    <td>Data Structures and Parallelism</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 312</font></td>
    <td>Foundations of Computing II</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 318</font></td>
    <td>Advanced Linear Algebra (Tools and Applications)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">ARCH 151</font></td>
    <td>Appreciation of Architecture</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>wi 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 341</font></td>
    <td>Programming Languages</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 311</font></td>
    <td>Foundations of Computing I</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 208</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Linear Algebra</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">EDUC 251</font></td>
    <td>Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>fall 21</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 143X</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Introduction to Java</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 126</font></td>
    <td>Calculus and Analytic Geometry</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">PSYCH 101</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Psychology</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## teaching

i've been a teaching assistant for the cs department at uw since the summer right after freshman year. if you're at uw and are considering applying to teach for a class you took at some point; i highly recommend it; definitely one of the most formative experiences i've had in college. below is a possibly outdated list of courses i've ta'ed for

- **CSE 311: Foundations of Computing I**
  - Spring 2023

- **CSE 312: Foundations of Computing II**
  - Summer 2022
  - Autumn 2022

- **CSE 417: Algorithms and Computational Complexity**
  - Winter 2024

- **CSE 446: Introduction to Machine Learning**
  - Winter 2023

- **CSE 493Q: Introduction to Quantum Computing**
  - Spring 2024

- **CSE 599: Graduate Quantum Computing**
  - Autumn 2023

some important links if pedagogy and education in cs are interesting/relevant to you

- [ta home page](https://www.cs.washington.edu/students/ta/ugrad/how_to_apply)
- [cs education seminar](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse590e/)
- [association for computing and education (student rso)](https://uwace.vercel.app/)

## reading and research

- i'm currently working with [Andrea Coladangelo](https://www.andreacoladangelo.com/) and [Chinmay Nirkhe](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~nirkhe/) on the $$\textsf{QMC}$$ problem where we're trying to develop better approximation algorithms to find a high energy state for a class of $$k$$-local hamiltonians that while physically motivated, also serve as a generalization for the [max-cut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_cut) problem. 
- this spring, i worked within [WXML](https://wxml.math.washington.edu/) on a project with [Stefan Steinerberger](https://math.washington.edu/people/stefan-steinerberger) alongside some other students on the **Bad Science Matrix problem** which consisted in finding, among all $$\mathbf{A} \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$$, with rows having unit $$\ell^2$$ norm, the one that maximized 
  <p style = "overflow-x:auto">
  $$
  \begin{align*}
    \beta(\mathbf{A}) = \frac{1}{2^n} \sum_{\mathbf{x} \in \{-1, 1\}^n} \|\mathbf{A}\mathbf{x}\|_{\infty}
  \end{align*}
  $$
  </p>
    - [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00933)
- in a past life, i worked with [Sara Mouradian](https://people.ece.uw.edu/mouradian_sara/index.html) and [Vikram Kashyap](https://vikramkashyap.com/) on understanding systems of qu$$d$$its and how they affected fidelity estimates and error rates in experiment. this project investigated error correction codes, developing a notion of universality for qu$$d$$it systems and how different architectures could be used to improve the fidelity of quantum computations. some relevant links for the same 
  - [a talk i gave at the uw undergradate research symposium](/assets/pdf/errorEstimates.pdf)
  - [a research presentation with some more exposition](/assets/pdf/research_presentation.pdf)
-

Commit message:

reading and research should be p much done?

_pages/misc.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /miscellaneous/
title: miscellaneous
header: the stuff i've been up to @ uw
nav: true
nav_order: 5
---

## classes i've taken

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>sp 24</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 563</font></td>
    <td>Graduate Graph Theory</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 404</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Modern Algebra III (Galois Theory)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">ENGL 182</font></td>
    <td>Composition: Multimodal</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">RELIG 120</font></td>
    <td>Yoga: Past and Present</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>wi 24</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">EE 539</font></td>
    <td>Quantum Probability Theory and Stochastic Calculus</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 403</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Modern Algebra II (Groups)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">LING 269</font></td>
    <td>Swearing and Taboo Language</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>fall 23</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 521</font></td>
    <td>Advanced Algorithms</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 514</font></td>
    <td>Networks and Combinatorial Optimization</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 402</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Modern Algebra I (Rings)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MUSIC 162</font></td>
    <td>American Popular Song</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>sp 23</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 493</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Quantum Computing</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 422</font></td>
    <td>Advanced Toolkit for Modern Algorithms</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 336</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Advanced Honors Calculus III</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">PSYCH 210</font></td>
    <td>The Diversity of Human Sexuality</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>wi 23</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 421</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Algorithms</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 431</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to the Theory of Computation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 335</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Advanced Honors Calculus II</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>fall 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 446</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Machine Learning</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 351</font></td>
    <td>The Hardware/Software Interface</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 334</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Advanced Honors Calculus I</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>su 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 331</font></td>
    <td>Software Design and Implementation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 207</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Differential Equations</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CHEM 142</font></td>
    <td>General Chemistry I</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>sp 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 332</font></td>
    <td>Data Structures and Parallelism</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 312</font></td>
    <td>Foundations of Computing II</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 318</font></td>
    <td>Advanced Linear Algebra (Tools and Applications)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">ARCH 151</font></td>
    <td>Appreciation of Architecture</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>wi 22</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 341</font></td>
    <td>Programming Languages</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 311</font></td>
    <td>Foundations of Computing I</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 208</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Linear Algebra</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">EDUC 251</font></td>
    <td>Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>fall 21</strong></td>
    <td><font size="2">CSE 143X</font></td>
    <td>Accelerated Introduction to Java</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">MATH 126</font></td>
    <td>Calculus and Analytic Geometry</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td><font size="2">PSYCH 101</font></td>
    <td>Introduction to Psychology</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## teaching

i've been a teaching assistant for the cs department at uw since the summer right after freshman year. if you're at uw and are considering applying to teach for a class you took at some point; i highly recommend it; definitely one of the most formative experiences i've had in college. below is a possibly outdated list of courses i've ta'ed for

- **CSE 311: Foundations of Computing I**
  - Spring 2023

- **CSE 312: Foundations of Computing II**
  - Summer 2022
  - Autumn 2022

- **CSE 417: Algorithms and Computational Complexity**
  - Winter 2024

- **CSE 446: Introduction to Machine Learning**
  - Winter 2023

- **CSE 493Q: Introduction to Quantum Computing**
  - Spring 2024

- **CSE 599: Graduate Quantum Computing**
  - Autumn 2023

some important links if pedagogy and education in cs are interesting/relevant to you

- [ta home page](https://www.cs.washington.edu/students/ta/ugrad/how_to_apply)
- [cs education seminar](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse590e/)
- [association for computing and education (student rso)](https://uwace.vercel.app/)

## reading and research

- i'm currently working with [Andrea Coladangelo](https://www.andreacoladangelo.com/) and [Chinmay Nirkhe](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~nirkhe/) on the $$\textsf{QMC}$$ problem where we're trying to develop better approximation algorithms to find a high energy state for a class of $$k$$-local hamiltonians that while physically motivated, also serve as a generalization for the [max-cut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_cut) problem. 
- this spring, i worked within [WXML](https://wxml.math.washington.edu/) on a project with [Stefan Steinerberger](https://math.washington.edu/people/stefan-steinerberger) alongside some other students on the **Bad Science Matrix problem** which consisted in finding, among all $$\mathbf{A} \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$$, with rows having unit $$\ell^2$$ norm, the one that maximized 
  <p style = "overflow-x:auto">
  $$
  \begin{align*}
    \beta(\mathbf{A}) = \frac{1}{2^n} \sum_{\mathbf{x} \in \{-1, 1\}^n} \|\mathbf{A}\mathbf{x}\|_{\infty}
  \end{align*}
  $$
  </p>
    - [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00933)
- in a past life, i worked with [Sara Mouradian](https://people.ece.uw.edu/mouradian_sara/index.html) and [Vikram Kashyap](https://vikramkashyap.com/) on understanding systems of qu$$d$$its and how they affected fidelity estimates and error rates in experiment. this project investigated error correction codes, developing a notion of universality for qu$$d$$it systems and how different architectures could be used to improve the fidelity of quantum computations. some relevant links for the same 
  - [a talk i gave at the uw undergradate research symposium](/assets/pdf/errorEstimates.pdf)
  - [a research presentation with some more exposition](/assets/pdf/research_presentation.pdf)
- i also participated in the [directed reading program](https://sites.uw.edu/wdrp/) the math department @ uw runs. alongside Brian Nugent, we read up on a different perspective on teaching commutative algebra, see: [Miles Reid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miles_Reid), one that was more focused on the geometric aspects of the subject. as a consequence i got to see a lot of beautiful results from algebraic geometry i wouldn't have otherwise seen. 
  - [a summary talk i gave on the stuff we learnt](/assets/pdf/commutative_algebra.pdf)
