---
layout: distill
title: unstructured search, but smarter
description: i finally made a quantum post
giscus_comments: true
date: 2025-07-13
featured: false

toc:
  - name: introduction
  - name: references
---

## introduction 
It seems there’s been a paradigm shift in the way popular media talks about quantum computing. Initially pessimistic, even revolutionary tech figures like [Jensen Huang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jensen_Huang) have turned heel on what they now believe to be the viability of large-scale quantum computers in the near future. Yet today there are several compelling reasons to take quantum seriously; the “elevator pitch” is not exclusively an appeal to authority. I won’t dive into those reasons here, but if you’re curious why I think this is such an exciting area of computer science, feel free to email me and I’d be happy to explain in detail.

For those already interested in quantum, demonstrating quantum advantage remains paramount. After all, quantum computing was originally sold as a model that could deliver dramatically faster speed‑ups across a wide class of problems. In some cases, these speed‑ups are exponential: for example, John Watrous’s excellent video on quantum‑query algorithms in IBM’s “Fundamentals of Quantum Algorithms” series. However, many of these algorithms feel somewhat artificially constructed to highlight extreme cases. Today, we’ll discuss an algorithm whose speed‑up is more modest in scale but applies to a much broader class of problems.

## the problem itself 

> Given black-box access to a function $$f : \{0, 1\}^n
> \to \{0, 1\} $$, output a **marked input** $$\mathbf {x}^*$$ 
> such that $$f(\mathbf{x}^*) = 1$$, if one exists. 

here, black-box access means that we can only interact with the function $$f$$ via querying $$f$$ on bit-strings in $$\{0, 1\}^n$$. we do not have access to any algorithm or circuit that can compute said function. 

## a classical lower bound 
the best known classical algorithm for this setting of problem is unfortunately no better than brute-force. given that there are $$2^n$$ $$n$$-bit binary strings, this provides a run-time of $$\Omega(2^n)$$. 

## querying a function quantumly
operations in the quantum world are mostly[^1] governed by unitary transformations and measurements 

[^1]: [quantum channels](https://www.math.columbia.edu/~plei/docs/quantum/nick.pdf)

## references 
- [quantum query algorithms by john watrous](https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/learning/en/courses/fundamentals-of-quantum-algorithms/quantum-query-algorithms/introduction)
- 