---
layout: distill
title: an ever-growing collection of some of my favorite proofs
description: a little something to commemorate pi day
giscus_comments: true
date: 2026-03-14
featured: false

toc:
  - name: gram matrices are literally magic
  - subsections:
      - name: pairwise non-negative inner products
      - name: packing arguments are pretty slick
      - name: a different distance estimate for the aforementioned packing argument. 
  - name: yet another proof of cauchy-schwarz
  - name: a fun integral 
---

## gram matrices are literally magic

### pairwise non-negative inner products

> Given $$n + 2$$ vectors $$\mathbf{v}_1, \mathbf{v}_2, \ldots, \mathbf{v}_{n + 2} \in \mathbb{R}^n$$,
> prove that there always $$2$$ distinct vectors $$\mathbf{v}_i$$ and $$\mathbf{v}_j$$ such
> that $$\langle \mathbf{v}_i, \mathbf{v}_j\rangle \geq 0$$.

**Proof**: This one is gorgeous. Define the matrix

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
    \mathbf{V} := \begin{bmatrix}
        \mid & \mid & \cdots & \mid \\
        \mathbf{v}_1 & \mathbf{v}_2 & \ddots & \mathbf{v}_{n + 2} \\
        \mid & \mid & \cdots & \mid \\
    \end{bmatrix} \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times (n + 2)}
\end{align*}
$$ 
</p>
and consider the corresponding Gram matrix

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{G} = \mathbf{V}^\top \mathbf{V} \in \mathbb{R}^{(n + 2) \times (n + 2)}
\implies \text{rank}(\mathbf{G}) = \text{rank}(\mathbf{V}^\top \mathbf{V}) \leq \text{rank}(\mathbf{V}) \leq n
\end{align*}
$$
</p>

We now argue via contradiction. Assume there are no distinct $$i, j$$ such that $$\langle \mathbf{v}_i, \mathbf{v}_j\rangle \geq 0$$. Therefore all the off-diagonal entries of $$\mathbf{G}$$ are strictly negative. Then, we have the matrix $$\mathbf{M} := \left\{\max \limits_{1 \leq i \leq n + 2} (\|\mathbf{v}_i\|) + 1\right\} \mathbb{I} - \mathbf{G}$$ has strictly positive entries. By the Perron-Frobenius theorem, it has unique maximal eigenvalue $$\lambda_{\text{max}}$$. Equivalently, $$\mathbf{G}$$ has a unique minimal eigenvalue $$\lambda_{\text{min}}$$. To see this put $$c := \max \limits_{1 \leq i \leq n + 2} (\|\mathbf{v}_i\|) + 1$$ and notice that since $$c \mathbb{Id}$$ and $$\mathbf{G}$$ commute, they possess a shared eigenbasis. Denote this eigenbasis by $$\{\mathbf{y}_1, \ldots, \mathbf{y}_{n + 2}\}$$. Since $$\mathbf{M}$$ is defined to be the sum of these matrices, it too possesses this eigenbasis. Let $$\{\beta_i\}$$ be the eigenvalues of $$\mathbf{M}$$ and $$\{\lambda_i\}$$ be the eigenvalues of $$\mathbf{G}$$. Noting that the eigenvalues of the identity are all $$1$$, we have

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
\beta_k \mathbf{y}_k = \mathbf{M} \mathbf{y}_k &= c \mathbf{y}_k - \lambda_k \mathbf{y}_k \implies \lambda_{\text{min}} = c - \beta_{\text{max}}
\end{align*}
$$
</p>

Since $$\mathbf{G} \succeq 0$$, its eigenvalues are $$\geq 0$$. However by the rank-constraint,
$$\mathbf{G}$$ has rank at most $$n$$ and therefore nullity at least $$2$$, implying that its minimal eigenvalue is non-unique. Contradiction!

### packing arguments are pretty slick 

> Given $$m$$ vectors $$\mathbf{v}_1, \ldots, \mathbf{v}_m \in \mathbb{R}^n$$ 
> with equal pairwise distances, i.e. $$\|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_j\|_{\ell_2} = d$$ 
> for $$i, j \in [m]$$ and $$d \in \mathbb{R}$$. Then, $$m \leq n + 1$$. 

**Proof**: Let $$\{\mathbf{v}_i\}_{i = 1}^{m} \subset \mathbb{R}^n$$ be a set of vectors with equal $$\ell_2$$ pairwise distances $$d$$ for some $$d \in \mathbb{R}$$. Define a new set of vectors $$\{\mathbf{x}_i\}_{i = 1}^{m - 1} \subset \mathbb{R}^n$$ where $$\mathbf{x}_i := \mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_m$$ for $$i \in [m - 1]$$. Then by construction, we have the following distance guarantees 

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
    \|\mathbf{v}_i\|^2_{\ell_2} &= \|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_m\|^2_{\ell_2} = d^2 \text{ for all } i \in [m - 1] \\
    \|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_j\|^2_{\ell_2} &= \|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_m - (\mathbf{v}_j - \mathbf{v}_m)\|^2_{\ell_2} = \|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_j\|^2_{\ell_2} = d^2 \text{ for all } i, j \in [m - 1] \\
    \langle \mathbf{v}_i, \mathbf{v}_j \rangle &= \frac{1}{2} \big(\|\mathbf{v}_i\|^2_{\ell_2} + \|\mathbf{v}_j\|^2_{\ell_2} - \|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_j\|^2_{\ell_2}\big) = d^2 - \frac{\|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_j\|^2_{\ell_2}}{2} = \frac{d^2}{2} 
\end{align*}
$$
</p>

Now define the matrix 

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{V} &:= \begin{pmatrix}
    - & \mathbf{v}_1 & - \\
    - & \mathbf{v}_2 & - \\ 
    \vdots & \vdots & \vdots \\
    - & \mathbf{v}_{m - 1} & -
\end{pmatrix} \in \mathbb{R}^{(m - 1) \times n} \end{align*}
$$ 
</p>

By some friendly computation, one observes that 
<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{V} \mathbf{V}^\top &= \begin{pmatrix}
\|\mathbf{v}_1\|^2_{\ell_2} & \langle \mathbf{v}_1, \mathbf{v}_2 \rangle & \cdots & \langle \mathbf{v}_1, \mathbf{v}_{m - 1} \rangle \\ 
\langle \mathbf{v}_2, \mathbf{v}_1 \rangle & \|\mathbf{v}_2\|^2_{\ell_2} & \cdots & \langle \mathbf{v}_2, \mathbf{v}_{m - 1} \rangle \\ 
\vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
\langle \mathbf{v}_{m - 1}, \mathbf{v}_1 \rangle & \langle \mathbf{v}_{m - 1}, \mathbf{v}_2 \rangle & \cdots & \|\mathbf{v}_{m - 1}\|^2_{\ell_2}
\end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix}
    d^2 & d^2/2 & \cdots & d^2/2 \\
    \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
    d^2/2 & d^2/2 & \cdots & d^2
\end{pmatrix}
\end{align*}
$$
</p>

In particular, it can be verified $$\mathbf{V} \mathbf{V}^\top$$ is linearly independent. However, one can immediately verify that it is not possible to have more than $$n$$ linearly independent vectors in $$\mathbb{R}^n$$, thereby necessitating that $$m - 1 \leq n$$. This settles the claim. 

### a different distance estimate for the aforementioned packing argument. 

> Given $$m$$ vectors $$\mathbf{v}_1, \ldots, \mathbf{v}_m \in \mathbb{R}^n$$ 
> with equal pairwise distances, i.e. $$\|\mathbf{v}_i - \mathbf{v}_j\|_{\ell_1} = \epsilon$$ 
> for $$i, j \in [m]$$ and $$\epsilon \in \mathbb{R}$$. Then, $$m < \infty$$.

**Proof**: 
A volumetric argument suffices. Suppose $$\|\mathbf{x}_i - \mathbf{x}_j\|_{\ell_1} = \epsilon$$ for all $$i \neq j$$. This implies that the $$\ell_1$$ balls of radius $$\epsilon/2$$ around centered at $$\mathbf{x}_i$$ and $$\mathbf{x}_j$$ are disjoint. Additionally, the union of all such balls is contained in the ball $$(1 + \epsilon/2)\mathcal{B}^d_1$$ where $$\mathcal{B}^d_1$$ denotes the unit $$\ell_1$$ ball in $$\mathbb{R}^d$$. Denoting $$\mathcal{B}^d_1(c, r)$$ as the $$\ell_1$$ ball centered at $$c$$ with radius $$r$$, we have
    
$$    
\begin{align*}
    \text{vol}\left(\bigcup_{i = 1}^{n} \mathcal{B}^d_1(\mathbf{x}_i, \epsilon/2)\right) \leq \text{vol}\left((1 + \epsilon/2)\mathcal{B}^d_1\right) &\implies
    \sum_{i = 1}^{n} \text{vol}\left(\mathcal{B}^d_1(\mathbf{x}_i, \epsilon/2)\right) \leq \text{vol}\left((1 + \epsilon/2) \mathcal{B}^d_1\right) \\
    n \cdot \frac{2^d}{d!} \left(\frac{\epsilon}{2}\right)^d \leq \frac{2^d}{d!} (1 + \epsilon/2)^d &\implies n \leq \left(\frac{1 + \epsilon/2}{\epsilon/2}\right)^d = \left(1 + \frac{2}{\epsilon}\right)^d
\end{align*}
$$ where we make use of the fact that the balls are disjoint. This settles the claim. 

__Exercise__: Can you make a similar argument under the $$\ell_p$$ metric for $$1 < p < \infty$$. 

## yet another proof of cauchy-schwarz

I imagine by this point, folks are well-familiar with the [Cauchy-Schwarz inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy%E2%80%93Schwarz_inequality) given its ubiquity. The statement admits many proofs as we've discovered in a [previous blog post](https://lukshyaganjoo.github.io/blog/2022/cauchy/). This might be my new favorite proof. It comes from Chapter $$3$$ of [The Schur complement and its applications](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/b105056) and is due to [Fuzhen Zhang](https://sites.nova.edu/zhang/me/). Given vectors $$\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y} \in \mathbb{R}^n$$, define the matrix $$\mathbf{A} := \begin{bmatrix} \mathbf{x} & \mathbf{y} \end{bmatrix}$$. Then 

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
    \mathbf{B} := \mathbf{A}^\top \mathbf{A} &= \begin{bmatrix} \mathbf{x} \\ \mathbf{y} \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} \mathbf{x} & \mathbf{y} \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix}
    \|\mathbf{x}\|^2 & \langle \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}\rangle \\ 
    \langle \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}\rangle &  \|\mathbf{y}\|^2
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{align*}
$$
</p>

In particular, the Gram matrix of $$\mathbf{A}$$ is positive semi-definite by construction. $$\therefore$$ All the eigenvalues of $$\mathbf{B}$$ are $$\geq 0$$, and consequently, it has non-negative determinant. This necessitates 

<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$
\begin{align*}
    0 \leq \text{det}(\mathbf{B}) &=  \|\mathbf{x}\|^2 \cdot \|\mathbf{y}\|^2 - \langle \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}\rangle \cdot \langle \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}\rangle \implies \langle \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}\rangle \leq \|\mathbf{x}\| \cdot \|\mathbf{y}\|
\end{align*}
$$ 
</p> 

providing the desired result. 

## a fun integral 

This one isn't really a theorem statement, it's mostly just a surprising integral computation I discovered a couple of years ago; so I thought to include it here. 

> $$
> \begin{align*}
> \int_{0}^1 x \cdot \sqrt{x \cdot \sqrt[3]{x \cdot \sqrt[4]{x} \cdots}} \; \mathrm{d}x = \frac{1}{e}
> \end{align*}$

As promised, one can compute the integral to find 
<p style = "overflow-x:auto">
$$\begin{align*}
\int_{0}^1 x \cdot \sqrt{x \cdot \sqrt[3]{x \cdot \sqrt[4]{x} \cdots}} \; \mathrm{d}x &= 
\int_{0}^1 \prod_{i = 1}^{\infty} x^{\frac{1}{i!}} \; \mathrm{d}x \\
&= \int_{0}^1 x^{\sum_{i = 1}^\infty \frac{1}{i!}} \; \mathrm{d}x = \int_{0}^1 x^{e - 1} \; \mathrm{d}x \\
&= \frac{x^e}{e} \big|_{0}^1 = \frac{1}{e}
\end{align*}$$
</p>
